Hi guys and welcome back to this email course.
So right before we wrote the first part of the encoder of the transformer sorry which is the encoder
and now let's start to right the second part the decoder again.
Let's have a quick look at the architecture of the transformer.
We already wrote these parts.
Now let's make this one.
This has pretty much the same architecture.
It's quite similar.
The only difference is that's in the decoder layer.
We will use the at the attention mechanism twice first time it's self attention so again we will only
use the input of the decoder by the second time we will use both the produce vectors that we have inside
the decoder and the fruits of the encoder.
So yeah it will be quite similar.
Not that hard.
Now that we already wrote the encoded parts.
So let's get into it right now.
So same thing as for the encoding we start by creating the sub layer which we we call the code layer
which inherits from layers that player and of course defining the in its function using self again.
The number of units for the feet forward but the number of projections for the Met head.
Attention sub layer and the dual part the drop out rates so let's call super.
As usual you call the layer self that's in it's who we are.
Let's make sure that we can use the number of units as well as the number of projects since and the
dropout rates as where in all class.
So self-taught no thrush equals an approach with the dots approach not with the dots.
That was right the first time and said That's dropouts equals dropouts.
Now like we did before we will define the core core methods and we will see along the way.
What we will need to define later in the union function or maybe in in the build method.
So let's go through the process.
Def.
Of course we would need self.
We will have some inputs and we will also have the outputs from the encoder.
Let's call them and each outputs two masks.
This time the mask for the first self attention layer and the second one for the attention layer that
uses the outputs of the encoder so mask 2.
And the training boolean just to see if we apply the dropouts on that.
So first phase is in this sub layer is to apply the first attention layer.
So melty at attention.
Number one and this is a set of attentional yes so we apply it to inputs inputs and inputs with the
first mask.
So here we are and we apply as we will many times the first drop outs to attention and we specify if
we are in training phase or not.
And finally this small sum plus normalization.
So no no one to attention plus inputs so this was the first phase of this decoder that we see right
here.
Then we will have to do pretty much the same thing here.
And finally the feed forward but let's declare right now the layers that we used in the build methods
which use self as before the input shape which will be the shape of the valuable inputs right here so
we will need later to get the model so equals input shape of course this is along the last dimension.
So for this first phase we has to use self that melty head's attention.
Number one which is equal to multi head tension and we all we just need to give it the number of projection
that we want to to have.
Then we used to jump out the first one its equals two layer starts drop outs and the rate is exactly
safe.
That's dropouts that we declared in the in its methods.
And finally last part of this First's process is to apply the normalization so let's declare Norm one
equals layers that layer not malign ization.
And again we will apply this Epsilon equals one e minus six.
Here we are.
Let's go to next phase which is the attention layer using the outputs of the encoder.
So let's create our attention.
Number two equals self.
That's multi heads attention to.
And we apply to attention
the outputs of the the outputs of the encoder
and the second mask so in this motel attention layer we will have a look at the paper to see how this
is explained in order to see what will be the values the keys and the queries.
So they expanded right here in the encoder decoder attention layers which is the one we are focusing
on right now.
The queries come from the previous decoder layer and the memory keys and values come from the outputs
of the encoder.
So this is why he we say that the queries for the multi had attention sub layer come from the attention
that we just computed right here and the keys and the values just come from the outputs of the encoder.
So this is just what is explained in the paper.
Now let's finish this process by applying as before a little bit of drop outs.
So if that's dropouts.
Number two applied to in to saying if we are training on that's and attention number two equals self
that's known to applied to attention to plus attention.
Here we are.
The second part of the decoder has been written.
So we just need to declare all the layers that we that we used there.
So actually this is really similar to the first phase.
So let's just be lazy once again don't do this at home.
This is quite dangerous.
If you have a small mistake a typo or whatever you will copy it and sometimes it can lead to days of
debugging but I'm a professional and actually I'm kind of cheating because I already know what the code
of course.
But yeah I allowed myself to be a little bit lazy right here and just change the ones with two and that
should do the job.
Now let's write the last part which is as for the encoder layer.
A simple feed forward sequence.
So let's say that outputs will be equal to itself.
That's tense.
One applied to attention to outputs equal to self dance to the plate to itself.
Then let's apply the last drop outs dropouts.
So that's the third outputs.
Training and finally self that's known for the third.
The third time outputs plus attention to and here we are.
Let's once again declare what we use right there.
So self that's tense one equals layers that dance the number of units has been declared before.
So self that's f f and it's of course it's units equals f f and units and we use the activation function
being revalued that's for the first one self.
That tends to will again be a dense dense layer.
Units equals.
We just go back to the dimension of our model.
Then we applied the drop outs.
The third one equals layers.
That's dropouts and the rate is self.
That's dropouts.
And the last layer that we use normalization layer third one equals layers that layer normalized station
effects same Epsilon course one e minus six.
Here we are making making the code look it's clean up and well I think the last thing we have to do
with this sub layer is just to return the results.
So return outputs perfect.
We have the decoder layer that we needed in order to build the whole decoder.
Let's start right now.
So let's declare the class code that inherits from layers that layer define the unit function self then
the layers number of units for the feet for its parts.
The number of projections the dropouts rates the size of the vocabulary.
This is pretty much similar to what we did for the encoder.
Again the dimension of the model and let's again be crazy and given name to this whole layer deep code.
OK let's call super decode the self that's in it.
And as we use a name we have to give it to this method.
And before creating any valuable let's try to write the the code methods and to see what we will need
later.
So self it will get of course inputs for the decoder.
It will get the outputs of the encoder so and the outputs.
We will use two masks that we will receive from the whole transformer code and get training to see if
we need to apply the Joe part on that.
So quick look to be sure.
The architecture right here.
First we need to make an embedding then to add the positional encoding and finally to apply our decoder
sub layer and times and being number layers.
So let's do that right now.
Let's start with outputs equals self.
That's embedding applied to inputs.
Then as before we do a little bit of normalization.
Multiplying that by T F that math that s cute.
Square root of 2 you have that casts because we wants the D model which is an integer to be floats in
order to apply the square root to its we see that we use the D model.
So let's just define it right here so we don't forget later set a D model equals t model.
Here we are.
After that we saw that we have to apply a positional encoding layer.
So pose encoding applied to outputs.
And before we get to the sub layers let's apply the base of the dropouts drop drop outs to outputs with
the training permits.
Okay.
Right before we apply decode those sub layers let's define what we used.
Right there.
So self that's embedding equals layers.
That's embedding and we give it the vocab size that we get as parameter.
Same thing with the dimension of the model.
Then we used a positional encoding layer let's define it right here.
Should Know and cutting we don't in any perimeter for this one.
And we applied drop outs equals there's that's dropouts and rates is the viable dropouts drop outs that's
it.
So now just as we did for the encoder we are ready to apply multiple decoders of layers and the way
we will do this again is with the list of layers.
So for I in range.
Self that's number layers
outputs equals self.
That's because the layers I
outputs applied to outputs.
We also receive the outputs of the encoder so and coordinate outputs we give the two masks.
That's we've been given.
And finally of course the training parameter.
Here we are.
So we applied the decoder sub layer as many times as we need.
So we have to create them First's self.
That's.
Layers equals let's create lists of those layers decoder layer we give it's the number of units for
the feet forward thoughts f f and units the number of pros and the drop out rates and this is for we
don't care in branch nonetheless and finally as we have seen right here we will use in a number of layers
outside of the input method.
So we need to create self.
That's number layers equals number layers.
Here we are.
Thing we all done with the decoder.
Of course we need this final thing which is to return the outputs.
That sets all the code is really to be used to build a transformer.
All the huge bricks have been built.
We just have to put them together to add a little bit of a dense layer at the end and I guess we will
have a fully performing transformer.
Really excited to finish this mother building and hope you are too.
So it's using.